Okay, so that's how we can deal
with failing tests.
Now I wanna move on to something we haven't done before.
I wanna add a second job to my Workflow here
because as mentioned earlier in the course,
your workflows that are part of your repositories
can have multiple jobs inside of them
and then they have these different steps
in the different jobs.
But having multiple jobs
in a Workflow is definitely something
that's also quite common to have.
It simply depends on the goal of your Workflow
if you need one or multiple jobs.
And here we could say
that maybe this Workflow here should not just be
about testing this project,
but it should eventually also deploy that code,
upload it to some hosting server.
Here I have no hosting server
but we can still simulate that it does that.
Therefore, I'll rename this file to deployment,
since that seems to be more fitting.
You don't have to rename it
but I wanna have a descriptive file name
and I will rename my Workflow
to Deploy Project.
Now it should still execute on push
but now testing is just one job.
Instead, now I'll add a second job,
which I'll name deploy.
Now what's really important is
that these job identifiers are
on the same level regarding their indentation.
So here I indented once for test.
Here we have one level of indentation for deploy.
This identifier here is up to you
just as test is up to you.
You can name this testing or whatever you want
but here I chose test and now deploy.
And now here we also need a runner
that's the same.
Every job has its own runner.
And of course, different jobs
can have different runners,
even if they're in the same Workflow.
Nonetheless, here, I'll stick to ubuntu-latest
and then I can add my steps.
Now many steps will be the same now.
I want to get my code,
I want to install this specific node js version
and I want to install my dependencies.
Therefore, I will actually copy these steps
and paste them down here.
Just make sure you don't accidentally
break the indentation because in yml files,
the indentation is extremely important.
You should have that same structure
as you see it here with that list
of steps indented once below steps
and steps and runs on indented once below deploy.
So now we have these steps,
but now in the next steps,
we won't run our tests,
but instead build the project.
Now many projects must be built
before they can be deployed.
For example, a mobile app must be built
and this website project also must be built
because the code you write during development
will actually not be the code
that's later served to your visitors.
Therefore, I will add a build step
and here I'll run a simple command in the shell.
And that's this npm run build command.
This will target this build script,
which is part of package.json,
and by running npm run build,
this will make sure that this project,
this website is built.
Now thereafter, we would typically want
to upload it to some web host,
to some server that serves the website.
But here for this example,
I have no such hosting provider.
Therefore, what I'll do here is
I will add a step named Deploy
but I'll just echo something here.
I'll just echo deploying like this.
With that however,
we added a second job to this one Workflow
which we have with its own steps
where some steps are the same as before
but where also some steps are brand new.
Now, what's important to note is
that these two jobs test and deploy will run
in parallel and we'll see this in action
as soon as we create a commit here
and push this to get up,
which is what I'll do next,
I'll stage my changed files,
in this case, the deployment yml file,
which was previously named test.yml,
and I'll create a new commit where I say,
renamed Workflow added deploy job.
And with this commit added and created,
we can now push this updated code to "GitHub".
And there we'll now see a difference.
The code of course changed,
but under actions we'll see
that the Workflow name changed.
And in this run for this Workflow,
because of this push,
we now see two jobs down there
which should make a lot of sense
because we now have two jobs.
They will run in parallel
which we will see as soon
as this job execution starts.
Now, here actually it looks
like it started already
and just didn't update the UI,
but they ran simultaneously.
As you can also tell by the total duration here
which is not the sum of the individual durations.
this proves that they ran in parallel
and the difference simply is some extra setup time
that was taken by "GitHub Actions".
So now both jobs ran in parallel.
Both jobs ran successfully, as you can tell
because all steps finished successfully
and that's how you can execute multiple jobs.
But of course, for some jobs
it also makes sense to run them
after each other instead of in parallel.